It took
Many visits to.
A doctor to find out that I did
not have a brain tumor. It took
reassert reassurance is from A.
Very well known psychiatrist
friend who said, I can certify
that you're saying Bob.
I said well what's the matter
with me and what's this thing
that's happening to me an?
He said well I think that you
are. Doing what is known as
conscious dreaming and I looked
at him and I said Oh what?
What's conscious dreaming
pieces. I don't know I just made
it up. And I said thank you.
Thank you. And.
I then got together with my
psychologist friend and I
said Brad.
What do I do about this thing he
says Oh that's easy I says what
he says they do it in India. All
the time this and they know all
about it in India. And I said,
well what? What should I do then
he says well I would I would
think you should go to India and
study under a guru and live in
an ashram until you know all
about it. And I said, well how
long would that take.
And he said Oh probably 10 or
20 years I said 10 or 20
years. What about my
business. What about my
mortgage house? What about my
wife and my 2:00 children. He
says Oh this is important.
And I looked at him very in the
face and I said bread.
If this were you.
What would you do and he looked
at me with this license he says
Robert he says it's not
happening to me it's happening
to you and he waved goodbye so
that was the response of.
And that beginning.
And being of a stubborn variety
and knowing that I did not have
a brain tumor. Knowing that
physically. I was alright and
the 2 People that I trusted most
in the in the mental health
field knew me so well that they
said. Oh, you have no mental
problem? What does 1 do?
So the natural response that I
had in my way of thinking being
a western mind. I couldn't see
going to India and spending 10
years living in an ashram that
would not be very comfortable
for me and also that's not the
way I think I'm a western mind.
So being very stubborn what I
did is too. Turn around and a
stab Lish research and
development division in my
company taking the one that we
had, and moved it over in this
other direction to find out
what's happening to me or find
out something so that I in turn
could. Have some answers for me,
so it was a very selfish
motivation and in the beginning.
It was nothing Noble or wanting
to help the world of humankind.
Not that at all, I needed the
help I had a company that could
spend R&D funds to do this and
that's how it began.
And it footnote.
Bear in mind that it took a full
year. After this first took
place for me.
To finally come to the included
conclusion that this was real.
Then it was not a dream that it
was not a nun loosen nation that
it actually took place because
my left brain might intellect my
an analytical part of me had to
be. Knowing this not believing
it and it took not a great.
Adventure or great something
that took place. It was an
accumulation of one verification
after another again and again
and again and after a while. I
said myself my brain might my.
Left brain my total self had
to say, yes, this is real.
This too much evidence. Never
mind the world, but for me and
that's how it began.
Bob. After you began this uh
this investigation into your own
experiences out of your own need
to understand what was happening
out of that came hemmy sink?
Could you tell us how the the
information about these the
influence of these sound
patterns with the kind of
experience that you were
researching how did that
connection get made for you?
Well again 1st and foremost, I
was the prime subject that that
we're going all the way back to.
When? I was in New York and had
offices in New York.
And had a house in Westchester
County, an I secretly put a
laboratory on our property in
Westchester because New York
somehow felt too noisy. So we
had this R&D program and built
into 25, Baker place up in
Westchester County.
It started very simply we
already knew how to put People
to sleep. So then it began to
say, well. What is this and how
are we doing this and we did
started with a very sound
scientific base of using sine
waves that replicated the brain
waves in the human mind the
human brain to in turn induce
this sleep. Well, it didn't take
much more patterns searching to
determine that. If we adjusted
those into areas that we didn't
have not looked at before we
begin to find something else.
And sure enough, we did, and
there was all the way back
there. In 1960 that we first
began to use what we have called
in recent years frequency
falling response. And that's
where that's different from hema
sink is different from Buonauro
beat type. This you can hear in
open air. It doesn't require
headphones to have maximum
ability to listen to it, and we
use that very, very broadly for
a number of years.
In terms of the hema sync
process itself.
The Hema sing process didn't
really take place until the 70s
and by that time, we had. We had
moved over to Charlottesville,
VA and gotten into cable
television and that was the new
thing to do as against radio
stations and we had through an
Association with about by that
time I had accumulated.
About 8:00 or 9 different
engineers and scientists and
doctors in Virginia and we as a
group. It was nothing again.
Mystical and magical. We decided
that would be the good way to do
it to create a binaural beat in
that saw him a sink was born and
that is, you know how it works.
I'm sure that's by his setting
one kind of signal say 100.
Hertz signal in this year and
then 104, Hertz over here and
the differential that for Hertz.
Is synthesized by the mind the
brain? You can't hear it is too
low in frequency to hear but it
is very effective to get that
for Hertz, which is a brain wave
frequency into the human mind.